README.md, before:

# NG Block UI

A Block UI implementation for Angular 2 & up

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ng-block-ui.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ng-block-ui.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kuuurt13/ng-block-ui.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kuuurt13/ng-block-ui)

## Installation
Add to your project via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)

```bash
// Angular 2.x
npm install ng-block-ui --save

-- or --

// Angular 4.x
npm install ng-block-ui@next --save
```

#### Configuring SystemJS

If your project is using SystemJS for module loading, you will need to add ng-block-ui to the SystemJS configuration:

```js
System.config({
  // Existing configuration options
  map: {
    ...
    'ng-block-ui': 'npm:ng-block-ui/bundles/umd'
  },
  packages: {
    ...
    'ng-block-ui': {
        main: 'index.js',
        defaultExtension: 'js'
    }
  }
});

```

Include the `BlockUIModule` in your main app module.

```js
// All other imports
import { BlockUIModule } from 'ng-block-ui';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
   ... // Your main app component
  ],
  imports: [
    ..., // Other imports
    BlockUIModule
  ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```
## Usage

### Block UI Component
Wrap all components in your app root template with a `block-ui` component.

Import the `BlockUI` decorator into your component and declare a variable with the decorator.
This decorator will auto wire this variable to the main Block UI instance of your app.

To start blocking your app, simply invoke the `start` method.
This method also can take a custom message to display while blocking.
Once finished call the `stop` method to stop blocking the app.

```js
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

// Import BlockUI decorator & optional NgBlockUI type
import { BlockUI, NgBlockUI } from 'ng-block-ui';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui>
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Decorator wires up blockUI instance
  @BlockUI() blockUI: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUI.start('Loading...'); // Start blocking

    setTimeout(() => {
      this.blockUI.stop(); // Stop blocking
    }, 2000);
  }
```

#### Default Message
A default message can be configured to be shown instead of passing a message each time to the start method.
The default message will be shown any time blocking is activated. A message can still be passed to the start method
and it will take precedence over the default message.

```js
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui [message]="'Loading...'">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  @BlockUI() blockUI: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUI.start(); // Default "Loading..." message will display
    this.blockUI.start('Updating...'); // Custom "Updating..." message will display
  }
```

#### Delay Start and Stop
When blocking with fast service calls the block overlay can flicker for a small amount of time.
To prevent this a `delayStart` and a `delayStop` can be configured to prevent this scenario.

| Delay | Description
|---|---|
| `delayStart: number` | Waits given amount of milliseconds before starting to block.
| `delayStop: number` | Waits given amount of milliseconds before stopping current block.

```html
<block-ui [delayStart]="500" [delayStop]="500">
  <!-- Your app markup here -->
</block-ui>
```

### Block UI Directive
Sometimes you want to only apply blocking to a certain element in your app.
The Block UI directive can be added to an element to apply blocking only to that specific element.

Add the `*blockUI` structural directive to any element
and pass it an instance name `*blockUI="'contact-list'"`.

Then in a component create a variable using the Block UI decorator with the instance name.
This will then take care of wiring up that variable to point to that specific instance in your app `@BlockUI('contact-list')`.

```js
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cmp',
  template: `
    <div>
      <!-- Other markup -->
      <div *blockUI="'contact-list'">
        <!-- List markup -->
      </div>
    </div>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Pass instance name to decorator
  @BlockUI('contact-list') blockUIList: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUIList.start('Loading...'); // Start blocking element only
    this.blockUIList.stop(); // Stop blocking
  }
```

### NgBlockUI Instance
| Method | Description
|---|---|
| `start` | Starts blocking for instance, can be passed an optional message.
| `stop` | Stops blocking for instance.
| `reset` | Stops blocking for all currently blocking instances app wide.
| `update` | Updates current instances blocking message with the passed message.
| `unsubscribe` | Unsubscribe an instance so it no longer can be blocked. All BlockUI components/directives unsubscribe during the `onDestroy` lifecycle hook. In some cases it might be desirable to unsubscribe while the component/element is still in the view.

### BlockUIService
In some cases you may want to have more control over all the instances in you app.
Instead of declaring seperate instances with the `@BlockUI()` decorator you can use the `BlockUIService`. This service allows you to easily target multiple instance across your app.

| Method | Parameters | Description
|---|---|---|
| `start` | `target: string \| string[], message?: any` | Starts blocking for a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).
| `stop` | `target: string \| string[]` | Stops blocking for a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).
| `unsubscribe` | `target: string \| string[]` | Unsubscribes a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).

### Custom Templates
If you want to display other markup than the default spinner and message then you can provide a custom template.
Custom templates can be provided as a `Component` or `TemplateRef`. The template will then be used instead of the default
template whenever blocking.

#### TemplateRef Custom Template
Add a `<ng-template>` with a template reference variable to the view. Then pass the template reference variable to the `blockUI` component using the `[template]` property.

*Note: If you are using Angular 2.x instead of 4.x you will need to use `<template>` instead of `<ng-template>`*

```js
// Optionally add block-ui-template css class to center div
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <ng-template #blockTemplate>
      <div class="block-ui-template">
        <img src="logo.png" />
      </div>
    </ng-template>

    <block-ui [template]="blockTemplate">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {}
```

#### Component Custom Template
Create a component and declare it in your app `NgModule`.
The component also will need to be added to the `entryComponents` property of the module. Once added to the module, import and declare the template component in your component that holds your `blockUI` component. Just pass the
component to the `blockUI` using the `[template]` property.

*Note: When providing a `Component` as a template just add the `{{message}}`
interpolation to your template and it will display your default message or the message passed to the `start` method.*

```js
@NgModule({
  imports: [ BlockUIModule ],
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    BlockTemplateComponent // Declare template component
  ],
  entryComponents: [ BlockTemplateComponent ] // Add to entryComponents
  ...
})
export class AppModule { }


// Template component
// Use block-ui-template css helper class to center div if desired
@Component({
  template: `
    <div class="block-ui-template">
      <img src="logo.png" />
      <p>{{message}}</p>
    </div>
  `
})
export class BlockTemplateComponent {}


// Pass template component to blockUI
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui [template]="blockTemplate">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Declare template component
  blockTemplate: BlockTemplateComponent = BlockTemplateComponent;
  ...
}
```

## Examples
### BlockUI Component - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/ZVDRrq?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Component Default Message - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/oTBw4G?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Directive - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/ZlbIhf?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Custom Spinner Styles - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/NiFr5j?show=styles.css,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Custom Template - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/yKzufz?show=app.component.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)

Commit message:

docs(clarification): Clarify that NgBlockUI's reset() method does not take into account `delayStop` option (#46)

README.md, after:

# NG Block UI

A Block UI implementation for Angular 2 & up

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ng-block-ui.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/ng-block-ui.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kuuurt13/ng-block-ui.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kuuurt13/ng-block-ui)

## Installation
Add to your project via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ng-block-ui)

```bash
// Angular 2.x
npm install ng-block-ui --save

-- or --

// Angular 4.x
npm install ng-block-ui@next --save
```

#### Configuring SystemJS

If your project is using SystemJS for module loading, you will need to add ng-block-ui to the SystemJS configuration:

```js
System.config({
  // Existing configuration options
  map: {
    ...
    'ng-block-ui': 'npm:ng-block-ui/bundles/umd'
  },
  packages: {
    ...
    'ng-block-ui': {
        main: 'index.js',
        defaultExtension: 'js'
    }
  }
});

```

Include the `BlockUIModule` in your main app module.

```js
// All other imports
import { BlockUIModule } from 'ng-block-ui';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
   ... // Your main app component
  ],
  imports: [
    ..., // Other imports
    BlockUIModule
  ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```
## Usage

### Block UI Component
Wrap all components in your app root template with a `block-ui` component.

Import the `BlockUI` decorator into your component and declare a variable with the decorator.
This decorator will auto wire this variable to the main Block UI instance of your app.

To start blocking your app, simply invoke the `start` method.
This method also can take a custom message to display while blocking.
Once finished call the `stop` method to stop blocking the app.

```js
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

// Import BlockUI decorator & optional NgBlockUI type
import { BlockUI, NgBlockUI } from 'ng-block-ui';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui>
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Decorator wires up blockUI instance
  @BlockUI() blockUI: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUI.start('Loading...'); // Start blocking

    setTimeout(() => {
      this.blockUI.stop(); // Stop blocking
    }, 2000);
  }
```

#### Default Message
A default message can be configured to be shown instead of passing a message each time to the start method.
The default message will be shown any time blocking is activated. A message can still be passed to the start method
and it will take precedence over the default message.

```js
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui [message]="'Loading...'">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  @BlockUI() blockUI: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUI.start(); // Default "Loading..." message will display
    this.blockUI.start('Updating...'); // Custom "Updating..." message will display
  }
```

#### Delay Start and Stop
When blocking with fast service calls the block overlay can flicker for a small amount of time.
To prevent this a `delayStart` and a `delayStop` can be configured to prevent this scenario.

| Delay | Description
|---|---|
| `delayStart: number` | Waits given amount of milliseconds before starting to block.
| `delayStop: number` | Waits given amount of milliseconds before stopping current block.

```html
<block-ui [delayStart]="500" [delayStop]="500">
  <!-- Your app markup here -->
</block-ui>
```

### Block UI Directive
Sometimes you want to only apply blocking to a certain element in your app.
The Block UI directive can be added to an element to apply blocking only to that specific element.

Add the `*blockUI` structural directive to any element
and pass it an instance name `*blockUI="'contact-list'"`.

Then in a component create a variable using the Block UI decorator with the instance name.
This will then take care of wiring up that variable to point to that specific instance in your app `@BlockUI('contact-list')`.

```js
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cmp',
  template: `
    <div>
      <!-- Other markup -->
      <div *blockUI="'contact-list'">
        <!-- List markup -->
      </div>
    </div>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Pass instance name to decorator
  @BlockUI('contact-list') blockUIList: NgBlockUI;

  constructor() {
    this.blockUIList.start('Loading...'); // Start blocking element only
    this.blockUIList.stop(); // Stop blocking
  }
```

### NgBlockUI Instance
| Method | Description
|---|---|
| `start` | Starts blocking for instance, can be passed an optional message.
| `stop` | Stops blocking for instance.
| `reset` | Stops blocking for all currently blocking instances app wide regardless of the `delayStop` option.
| `update` | Updates current instances blocking message with the passed message.
| `unsubscribe` | Unsubscribe an instance so it no longer can be blocked. All BlockUI components/directives unsubscribe during the `onDestroy` lifecycle hook. In some cases it might be desirable to unsubscribe while the component/element is still in the view.

### BlockUIService
In some cases you may want to have more control over all the instances in you app.
Instead of declaring seperate instances with the `@BlockUI()` decorator you can use the `BlockUIService`. This service allows you to easily target multiple instance across your app.

| Method | Parameters | Description
|---|---|---|
| `start` | `target: string \| string[], message?: any` | Starts blocking for a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).
| `stop` | `target: string \| string[]` | Stops blocking for a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).
| `unsubscribe` | `target: string \| string[]` | Unsubscribes a single instance or multiple instances by passing instance name(s).

### Custom Templates
If you want to display other markup than the default spinner and message then you can provide a custom template.
Custom templates can be provided as a `Component` or `TemplateRef`. The template will then be used instead of the default
template whenever blocking.

#### TemplateRef Custom Template
Add a `<ng-template>` with a template reference variable to the view. Then pass the template reference variable to the `blockUI` component using the `[template]` property.

*Note: If you are using Angular 2.x instead of 4.x you will need to use `<template>` instead of `<ng-template>`*

```js
// Optionally add block-ui-template css class to center div
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <ng-template #blockTemplate>
      <div class="block-ui-template">
        <img src="logo.png" />
      </div>
    </ng-template>

    <block-ui [template]="blockTemplate">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {}
```

#### Component Custom Template
Create a component and declare it in your app `NgModule`.
The component also will need to be added to the `entryComponents` property of the module. Once added to the module, import and declare the template component in your component that holds your `blockUI` component. Just pass the
component to the `blockUI` using the `[template]` property.

*Note: When providing a `Component` as a template just add the `{{message}}`
interpolation to your template and it will display your default message or the message passed to the `start` method.*

```js
@NgModule({
  imports: [ BlockUIModule ],
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    BlockTemplateComponent // Declare template component
  ],
  entryComponents: [ BlockTemplateComponent ] // Add to entryComponents
  ...
})
export class AppModule { }


// Template component
// Use block-ui-template css helper class to center div if desired
@Component({
  template: `
    <div class="block-ui-template">
      <img src="logo.png" />
      <p>{{message}}</p>
    </div>
  `
})
export class BlockTemplateComponent {}


// Pass template component to blockUI
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <block-ui [template]="blockTemplate">
      <!-- Your app markup here -->
    </block-ui>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Declare template component
  blockTemplate: BlockTemplateComponent = BlockTemplateComponent;
  ...
}
```

## Examples
### BlockUI Component - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/ZVDRrq?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Component Default Message - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/oTBw4G?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Directive - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/ZlbIhf?show=app.compontent.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Custom Spinner Styles - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/NiFr5j?show=styles.css,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
### BlockUI Custom Template - [Plunker](https://embed.plnkr.co/yKzufz?show=app.component.html,preview&autoCloseSidebar)
